‎‪The Faroe Islands are
also called the Land of Maybe.‏
‎‪The weather is very diverse
and can rapidly change.‏
‎‪So when you begin in the ministry,
the weather can be sunny.‏
‎‪And then ten minutes later,
you find yourself‏
‎‪in a massive rain shower
and everything gets wet.‏
‎‪Wind is another challenge.‏
‎‪We have some severe winter storms.‏
‎‪So you have to be careful
that your service partner or the car door‏
‎‪doesn’t blow away
while you’re getting out of the car.‏
‎‪We make sure to wear clothes
appropriate for the weather.‏
‎‪And also to stay updated
on the weather situation‏
‎‪and see where in our territory
the weather is most suitable, and then adapt.‏
‎‪If the weather is nice,
then we try to go from house to house.‏
‎‪And if the weather is bad,‏
‎‪then you can go on calls
where you can go inside,‏
‎‪meaning where they will invite you in‏
‎‪or where the entrance is covered.‏
‎‪And you can plan your ministry
so that if the weather gets bad,‏
‎‪you can make visits that you know
will be at home that time of day.‏
‎‪When the weather is poor,
it’s good to adjust.‏
‎‪Maybe you can do
some telephone witnessing or letter writing.‏
‎‪At a meeting for pioneers,‏
‎‪an elder reminded us
that when the weather is bad,‏
‎‪try not to think:
‘The weather is bad again,’‏
‎‪but instead,
‘Yay! Now people are actually at home.’‏
‎‪It is a good idea to have a plan
for whom you’d like to visit‏
‎‪and what you’d like
to talk to them about‏
‎‪because then when it rains
or the weather isn’t ideal,‏
‎‪you focus on your plan‏
‎‪instead of thinking
that now I have been out preaching‏
‎‪for five hours in stormy weather.‏
‎‪I think Ecclesiastes 11:4
applies quite well to our territory:‏
‎‪“The one who watches the wind
will not sow seed,‏
‎‪and the one who looks at the clouds
will not reap.”‏
‎‪If we have to wait
for the perfect weather conditions to preach,‏
‎‪then we wouldn’t be out that often.‏
‎‪Something else
that helps us to endure bad weather‏
‎‪is to think of the first publishers
in the Faroe Islands.‏
‎‪They fought with seasickness, bad weather,‏
‎‪and they had to hike over the mountains
to visit remote settlements.‏
‎‪They overcame these obstacles,‏
‎‪and it motivates me to overcome
the challenges I am facing today.‏
‎‪I remember when we came
to the Faroe Islands,‏
‎‪I looked out the window
and thought,‘Is it even possible‏
‎‪to go out in the ministry
in this kind of weather?’‏
‎‪And then we arrived
at the meeting for field service,‏
‎‪and the friends
with children and strollers were there‏
‎‪and were positive
and ready for field service.‏
‎‪It made me think
that if they can do it, then I can too.‏
‎‪So we are a team of publishers,
and we have the weather as our challenge.‏
‎‪And especially when the weather is bad,
we encourage one another.‏
‎‪We really like the song
“The Life of a Pioneer.”‏
‎‪It’s an amazing song.‏
‎‪It says: “In the work we endure,
whether sunshine or rain.”‏
‎‪It’s because we love Jehovah.‏
‎‪We really want people
to get to know Jehovah.‏
‎‪They need to know the truth.‏
‎‪When Jesus said that we should preach,‏
‎‪I think that he
also would have put on a raincoat‏
‎‪and gone out to preach the good news.‏
‎‪We experience how Jehovah blesses
our efforts when we go in the ministry.‏
‎‪And you especially feel it
when you persist in your efforts‏
‎‪to preach when the weather isn’t good.‏
‎‪It may be that one day
you have a really nice conversation‏
‎‪with a person about the Bible.‏
‎‪I also feel it gives me great joy.‏
‎‪Paul said that the one who “sows bountifully
will also reap bountifully.”‏
‎‪So if you want to sow bountifully
in the Faroe Islands,‏
‎‪you need to preach
also when the weather is bad.‏
‎‪And we feel
that we have reaped bountifully‏
‎‪with nice return visits and Bible studies.‏
‎‪I feel it’s worth all the effort‏
‎‪because we see that people in the territory‏
‎‪really appreciate what they are learning.‏
‎‪All that we do in our ministry‏
‎‪is motivated by love for Jehovah‏
‎‪and the people in the territory,
and it won’t be changed by bad weather.‏
‎‪It’s an opportunity to show
that our worship is wholehearted.‏
‎‪You don’t just go
in the ministry when everything is good‏
‎‪and the sun is shining.‏
‎‪I think we have become more enduring‏
‎‪and flexible in our ministry.‏